Let's see if we can tweak our animation a bit to get the movements to be a little more realistic let's
take a look at it again here.
So he comes down slowly I'd kind of like to see him come down a little quicker and maybe bounce at the
bottom.
Of the drop.
So let's work on that.
So to get him to move down a little quicker we need to reduce the time or reduce the number of frames
between this top key frame and the bottom keyframe.
So what I'll do is I'll press the Beaky and drag select these key frames here and I'll hit the G key
and move them down.
Move them back maybe 30 frames and see how that works.
Go back to the beginning hit play and let's see a little bit better.
Feels like he's moving down a little quicker.
I'm going to bring it down a little more maybe another six frames and see how that works.
I'd be a little fast maybe I'll undo it and let's see how that is.
Yes so that has him coming down a little bit quicker.
Now what I want him to do is kind of bounce a little bit down here at the bottom so I want him to come
down bounce just go down a hair and then back up before he even begins moving forward.
So I'm going to zoom in to my graph editor here.
You can press the home key on your keyboard to frame up all the key frames and then you can use the
Control key and the middle mouse button to kind of collapse the frames or make them bigger or drag left
and right and squish and stretch.
So it isn't changing the placement or position of the keyframes it's just adjusting the view.
So I'm going to scroll in here and let me see if I can find I want to look at this.
Keyframe the graph here that's the y axis.
Let me move this up here.
The y axis is the one that's dictating how quickly he drops this green axis over here right here.
This is the one that's telling us how quickly he's dropping down.
But if you look over here the up and down is the z axis and that's because we're in global transformation
orientation here.
So I'm going to switch from global to local.
And now you can see that Y-axis is pointing up.
So that's just for consistency sake.
I think we should have that up just so we can see which axis we're working with.
So if he comes down here and wants to we want to have him bounce a little bit we may need another keyframe
right in here so if he comes down and bounces right about here what say we take this keyframe and we
duplicate it and then press g and X and move it in the x over to that place there.
So let's see if that's going to that's just going to kind of like he's going to hit a brick wall there.
So I think I also need to duplicate this axis in the Z because that's the one where he's moving forward.
So as he drops it down I kind of want him to stay in place so maybe I'll just move this over I'll hit
G and X and move it over that.
See how that works.
All right so now we can work on our little bounce here.
Maybe I'll move this a little bit to the left and we can take these little bezier handles here and select
them and rotate them like this and that will adjust the curve.
I like that.
Now what we can also do is split them so we can adjust just one side at a time.
So if I select this keyframe and I press the the key on the keyboard I'll see the vector type.
So we can do this free handle here which means I can take one of these and move it around independently.
Now I can make a little dip there.
And for this kind of smooth that curve out so it's a little smoother for this one.
I'll press the key and choose free and then I'll maybe dip this or move this around just a bit to get
more of a smooth curve there.
Something like that.
Let's see how this works that maybe.
Well we'll see.
All right.
We're getting there.
I think I need a little bit more time before he moves on.
So let me move this over and I'll move this over just a hair as well.
And then I'll dip these down just a little more
like.
So let's check that out
yes.
There we get a little bounce there.
That's good.
But it looks like this.
Here is a little bit sharp.
Let's take another look at it.
Yeah.
I want to extend this out just a bit salted G and extend that out a hair like so maybe
right.
So he comes down he pops up.
Maybe I'll bring this up just a bit.
I'll hit G and y move it up maybe move it over in the next a bit and I'll adjust this to smooth that
curve a little more.
Let's see if we can get here.
All right.
It's still a little choppy there's something going on there's a pop happening somewhere.
Let's take a look at this here.
I think it may just be happening too quickly.
I'll go like this.
Yeah.
Well now it's not now it's not bouncing.
So I'll move it back
maybe extend this a little bit.
So this is really the process of animating right here.
I'm just trying to find something that's going to work
all right.
So now I'm going to work on the little dip here as it moves forward.
I'm going to remove this keyframe one of the things that I see very often is when people find a problem
with their animations something is happening too quickly.
There is a sharp turn and there's a pop.
People tend to try and fix those kinds of problems by adding keyframes.
And what I think is that oftentimes or the majority of the time the problem can be solved by deleting
a keyframe.
So I'm going to go ahead and delete this keyframe here and select it at the x key and delete and then
I can come in here and change the handles to free and do a little bit of adjusting here.
To kind of smooth out that curve and let's see how this works.
All right.
So there's that so far I'm going to take this and I don't think I want it to dip down quite so far.
So I'll move this up with G and Y and move it up a bit like that see how this works.
I must feel like that if these keyframes moved forward a bit speeding up that drop that bounce would
be a little bit more believable.
So I'll press the G key and move it forward.
And let's see if we can increase the speed of that drop.
Little too much
try that
right.
I'm going to move it over two more frames like that.
Let's try that.
I'm going to reduce the height of this one by pressing g y and move that one down a bit like that.
So it doesn't come back up quite as much.
Now I'm going to take this in and extend it just a bit like this.
Now this keyframe may not be necessary we may be able to do what we want to do by adjusting the bezier
handles instead.
Let me show you what I mean here.
I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to press the x key to delete this.
And now if I come over here if I want a smooth dip in this curve I can press the key and kind of go
like this and then use the handles here free these with the key.
Select this and maybe dip this down like that something like that.
Now let's test that out.
All right.
So now what let's do is let's work on the drop here.
I think we're probably going to need to insert a key frame though.
Well let's see maybe I can adjust this and then have it drop.
Let's try it.
All right it needs to drop a little quicker there.
So I'm going to move this a bit like this.
And let's see how this works.
That's not too bad.
So that's the general process.
I'll be going through as I animate this.
I think the key takeaways here is that oftentimes deleting a keyframe is a better option than adding
and that you can break the tangents here or you can adjust the handles of these points individually
by selecting it and then pressing V and choosing free.
And that allows you to really have a lot more control over how the curve behaves.
So in the next video we'll begin working on the more detailed movements of how the mech moves while
he's flying.